The "classical" essay recommended by Sami & Tuomas [Augmenting long-term memory](https://augmentingcognition.com/ltm.html) has the following points made differing from my current practices:
1. You should not write anki cards as you learn things for the first time. This is what I've done several times when reading through material for certifications. Instead, you should first work to understand the material better, creating more links to what you already know. This will help make cards that are easier to remember, and most importantly your understanding is better. Not doing so results in writing cards that have just a bunch of unconnected facts, they are much harder to remember.
   Here is where using AI tools can help, to fill in gaps in your understanding, and helping to create links.
   The downside is that it _seems_ to be more work. But is it really, if as a result you remember the data easier? How much less you spend time recalling the material afterwards.
2. You should not put too much stuff in your cards, as it makes it difficult to judge the outcome: if you remember most but not all, should you declare success or failure? There is an art in creating the cards in a way that makes this easier, and usually works in tandem with understanding the material better.
3. You should also be critical of what you decide to remember. If there is no "intellectual curiosity" on your part, material is harder to remember and at least require more effort to do so. For the certifications: why do you do it in the first place, if you seem to drain of interest with the endless flow of facts. Probably not all of that data is not relevant, so think carefully whether to waste capacity. Perhaps using more architecture-driven way of study would help?
4. Anki is a really simple system. And with all simple systems the way it is used makes the difference. The less there is to it, the more you need the skill of using it.

So, the anki questions are also referred to as "prompts", a rather unfortunate selection of term in this time of AI. [Here's a dedicated essay for creating effective prompts.](https://andymatuschak.org/prompts/) Nuggets from this essay:
1. You should go beyond the words to the _idea_ it describes, the write a focused prompt to recall that idea. Here, the writer also asks to avoid all the bad practices described above. It should be always easy to determine whether you answered correctly or not.
2. He emphasises on writing prompts which you can "almost always" answer correctly. However, too easy questions will not help, there needs to be effort in answering the question, otherwise memory does not happen.
3. It is a mistake to be "economical" about the amount of questions to write. If you try to make too few, you'll write coarser prompts and start losing focus.
4. Again the idea that new material should be revised several times and to create connection to things that are meaningful to you.
5. You should review the material over time and not be afraid to rephrase prompts to connect to more meaninful data, or delete the unnecessary ones.

[Effective learning: 20 rules of formulating knowledge](https://www.supermemo.com/en/blog/twenty-rules-of-formulating-knowledge) referred to by the above essay. Takeaways:
1. You do not learn if you do not understand, and learn before you memoize. Logically it follows you should first understand before you memoize.
2. Basics. This was also referred to in the first essay: understanding basics well will make it easier to understand and remember things built on top of the basics.
3. Simplicity and decomposition: complex ideas usually have some twink that is hard to remember. You should spit these to a series of smaller, simpler prompts. This way the easy to remember parts fade out leaving the focus on the difficult item.
4. Avoid sets: a collection of features that is often listed in certification material. You rarely need to produce that list, it is better to turn those into single-fact prompts and forgetting that they ever need to be grouped together. This probably produces knowledge that is more useful in the exam. If sets are to be remembered, and ordered list works better, producing shape effect. Convert these to clozes.
5. Memory inference! Event bridges, event queues, event buses! Learning a new thing that resembles some old idea in your head may cause confusion between them and leading to a situation where both are forgotten. This should be dealt with head on. Use mnemonics ot whatever tricks to separate them in your head.
6. Not really from this but a combination from all of these essays: if you want to "hammer" some knowledge, write several prompts about it to emphasize it in your learning.
7. When you come up with an idea or solution, consider propting the way to "reinvent" the solution instead of just the solution itself. Try to remember the reasoning, not the end result.
8. Prioritize. There is always more information available than what you can remember.
