Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) is your basic network resource. An ec2 instance needs the vpc that it connects to. VPCs operate on private network ranges. VPCs themselves comprise of subnets. By default AWS gives you subnets per availability zones. However, it is commonplace to create a _public_ and a _private_ subnets (one per availability zone). Public subnets are visible to the internet, while private subnets are not.
In order to connect to the internet, a public subnet needs an Internet Gateway and a Routing Table. Routing table is used to store a route to the internet that points to the gateway. This way, an EC2 instance on the public subnet finds it's way out.
EC2 instances on the private subnet will not get the routing rule, and they also don't have the internet gateay, so they are protected from the general internet, but they also don't have a way out, which is problematic if you want to install software updates on the servers. The solution is to use a Network Address Translation (NAT) gateway, which allows a way out but no way in. You should place the NAT on the public subnet, and create a rule in the private network that points to the NAT in the public side. Subnets in a VPC get routes between them by default from AWS.
Finally, there are additional security protocols. EC2 instances have security groups that protect the instance, only allowing connections _to_ EC2 that are allowed. Usually you want at least the SSH. A Network Access Control List (NACL) is a subnet level resource (a subnet can have only one NACL, but a NACL can be associated with several subnets) that protects both incoming and outgoing network traffic at the subnet level. This is rarely used as the security groups are sufficient, but then again SGs are specific to EC2.