EventBridge works as an event router, it is not a bus. EventBridge has things called EventBus but it should not be confused with e.g. NATS. Each AWS account has a default event bus, which receives events from AWS services. However, unless you have rules (which act like a filter) nothing happens with these events, they are dropped. Compare this to NATS which stores all events for a retention period, allowing users to create ephemeral subscriptions to query the persisted events. You can create additional event buses for your applications, or for reception of third party events. Events can be forwarded between buses.
The next step is a _rule_. A rule defines an event pattern which lists for attributes to look for in incoming events. There are no channels or topics, no request-reply. An event is an event, in priciple an arbitraty blob of json, although things like events from AWS services follow a defined schema. Anyway, rules define the event pattern which is used to filter incoming events. All incoming events are processed by all rules (300 max by default). If a pattern matches, then the rule takes and optional processing step to transform the event, before delivering it to it's targets (5 max).
Targets can be Lambda functions, SQS topics, SNS targets, or API calls. EventBridge does not have a dead-letter-queue, but you can use SQS queue for this purpose.
As said, EventBridge does not persist events. However, there is an archive/replay feature. Basically you need to create an event pattern that marks the matched events as archived.
EventBridge does not have a concept of a subsciption. Therefore there is no concept of durability in a subscription, nor a concept of a service. You presumambly need to use SQS for this.
#aws #EventBridge 