There is no nutshell in interrailing. The european rail network is a mess, and there are no simple answers. If you are not prepared to spend days planning for it, fly. Planning and researching are part of the process, part of the travel experience. Taking a long trip involves more legs than a flight, which explains it. Also, you need to plan where you do your sleeping.
You need to study each country you travel for their rail system and "rail culture". Interrailing conventions vary by country as you might expect, as well as the train types and how trains are run. For example, while swiss trains punctuality are excellent, in Germany it is around 60%.
Punctuality matters with interrailing, because connections are not guaranteed. If you miss a connection, tough, it\s on you. Catching your connections is the biggest source of stress in multiple-leg train journey.
Also, do not think that planning your trip is a one-off activity. You need to have backups, plan-b's and you need to check the validity of your plan. The problem is that the interrail booking system is separate from the rail companies' booking system. That means that if there are any changes in your reservations and plans, you may be informed about it, or then maybe not.
One important aspect of interrailing is remote working: is it possible to work remotely while on the train? The answer is yes, if you plan for it. That means favoring new trains which usually require surcharges. This is a problem because very few train companies sell seat reservation for interrailers on the net, so you are resorted to use the interrail's booking system. This is a problem because this system is man-in-the-middle, which means that while you may get your seat reserved, any potential changes to your this is likely to not reach you. This depends on the train company, of course. If you plan to work, favor longer legs, avoid having to stress on connections, and event consider using a first-class ticket.
Finally, do not think black-and-white. You should not consider interrail ticket as the total solution, you could as well cover only some part of your journey with the interrail. For example, TGV from Frankfurt to Marseille carries a 29 e surcharge for interrailers, while the cheapest 2nd class tickets start at 45 e. The daily cost of the interrail ticket is larger than the gap, and buying directly from the train company is always better than using a man-in-the middle. Also, Flixbus has some good deals on some routes.
[[Spring 2024 interrail trip]]
[[Interrailing in Sweden]]
[[Interrailing in Germany]]
[[Interrailing in France]]
[[Interrailing in Spain]]